what is vetting really right what what
what is vetting why do they do that the
whole reason nominees for high office
get checked out the whole reason they
get vetted the whole reason there's
supposed to be a deep dive background
check on anyone applying for a security
clearance anybody potentially being
appointed to high office the whole
reason to do that is to make sure there
isn't going to be any leverage against
them or any hidden Dynamics at play
while they have a sensitive position on
behalf of the United States of America
so you want to know like is this person
a foreign agent or were they a foreign
agent in the past are they linked to
organized crime do they have a criminal
background of any kind or links to
criminal Associates is this person on
someone's payroll or in debt to someone
are they addicted to drugs or alcohol or
gambling is there anything about this
person's life or background that makes
them potentially vulnerable to Blackmail
or extortion is there anything that can
be known about them that they really
wouldn't want to get out and they might
do anything to keep it from be being
made
public well how about if a guy got his
job only because the contents of an
official government report into his
alleged child sex trafficking was
politically suppressed and he's
therefore desperate to keep that hidden
from the public while among many other
people involved in the process at least
10 members of Congress have that report
that he is desperate to keep
hidden is that a good situation for the
Attorney General of the United States to
be
in this election
uh it turns out was close uh closer than
the rhetoric and the noise around it
would make you think Donald Trump um
only improved on his electoral vote
showing from 2016 by six EVS he got six
more electoral votes than he got in in
his razor thin win in 2016 he went from
306 to 312 in 2016 at least in all the
states he won the Republican Senate
candidate won as well in this election
that did not happen there were four
states where Trump won but the
Republican Senate candidate lost so his
coattails were pretty short pretty thin
Republicans in the house will still have
only a teeny teeny teeny tiny majority
one of the smallest majorities in
history the popular vote still to this
day continues to get tallied up it looks
like Trump will end up being below 50%
of the popular vote which means most of
the people who came out and voted in
this election voted for someone else not
Trump so he won yeah
but it's a narrow win here's how the New
York Times put it quote Trump secured
his victory by just a cumulative 237,000
votes in three states that had they gone
the other way would have meant victory
for
Harris so it was a narrow win for Trump
but it was a win and in addition to
holding on to their tiny majority in the
house next year Republicans will also
take control of the Senate next
year but that's next year and that means
means for Democrats right now right this
very minute this is an important time
and they should be making the most of
every second they continue to control
the
Senate and in the weird circumstances
we're in right now that could mean
telling the FBI to hand over their file
on the federal criminal investigation
into Matt Gates hand that over to the
Senate it could mean trying to subpoena
the Ethics Committee report from the
house if they refuse to release it it
could mean that the Senate gets
testimony themselves from the witnesses
who testified about Matt gates to the
house house Ethics
Committee none of these things are
normal to happen in a transition but I
say this right I mean under normal
circumstances all those things I just
described those would all happen while
confirmation hearings were underway for
Trump's appointees right or there are
things that you could be assured would
happen when the FBI did background
checks on people for the confirmation
process or for security clearances or
whatever right
with this new Administration coming in
though they don't want to do background
checks they reportedly are not doing
background checks for their potential
nominees and of course they don't want
confirmation hearings of any kind either
the president-elect Donald Trump is
demanding that the Senate should go into
recess so he can install anyone he wants
in any job with no vetting by anyone no
confirmation process no hearings no
vote so Democrats are in a really
interesting position right with that
Demand by Trump on the
table demanding that there just be
recess appointments only no
confirmations with that Demand on the
table there's no reason for Democrats in
the Senate to wait right it's possible
no confirmation hearings are ever coming
for any of these
nominees so if there is something the
American people should know about any of
these people who Trump says are going to
be his nominees running the government
well now might be the only chance to do
it while Senate Democrats still have the
gavl and can still use that power
including subpoena power to do what
might be the only vetting any of these
nominees will ever
get Senator Blumenthal today saying that
for the Senate armed services committee
that might include holding a hearing to
get testimony from Witnesses who say
they have information about the rape
allegation against Donald Trump's choice
for defense secretary Pete
hegf Fox News host Pete hegseth denies
that he sexually assaulted or raped
anybody but he now admits paying a woman
to stay silent about her rape allegation
against
him we should note that California
authorities never brought charges
against him when they investigated that
matter but we're going to be speaking
with a member of the Senate armed
services committee about that
possibility about that nomination and
more coming up here live in just a
moment I I do think it's worth being
very cleare eyed very realistic about
what's going on here and what options
people people have right now in this
moment obviously I think it seems clear
to the Democrats that they ought to
spend this time while they are still in
control of the Senate confirming as many
federal judges as possible they are they
are working on that they confirmed
another Federal appeals court judge just
tonight so that's something uh but there
are literally dozens of Biden judicial
nominees still pending and there's no
reason the Democrats in the Senate
cannot work around the clock and through
every second of the time they've got
left to confirm every one of those
pending Biden judicial nominations that
seems like a very obvious point and a
good way to spend their time what is
maybe the less obvious point
though is that the Congress the whole
the whole US capital right both houses
of Congress they're really in a fight
for their existence at this moment
whether they know it or not whichever
party they're in whatever lovely
relationship they think they have on a
personal level with Donald Trump um the
project of someone who is authoritarian
minded when they get into power
is to consolidate all power in
themselves which means taking it away
from everyone else right and there's a
lot been a lot of talk about how Trump
is doing that within the executive
branch taking away the independence of
any agency any Department anything that
we think of is the federal government
including law enforcement right that's
been discussed a lot Trump consolidating
power within the executive branch there
has been less talk about how Trump is
also trying to consolidate all the other
power of the government as well namely
and especially the power that Congress
has under the Constitution the Senate
has the right and responsibility to
confirm nominees to important jobs in
the government not just the cabinet it's
more than a thousand positions that are
supposed to be Senate confirmed Trump
has publicly told the Senate that for
his next term he demands that they stop
doing that he has told them explicitly
that they must recess shut themselves
down because he wants them to have no
say and who he puts in office no matter
what the Constitution
says that's why the Democrats who are in
control in the Senate right
now they may have the only
opportunity there's going to be they may
have the only chance The public's going
to have to hold hearings on and
investigate and vet and tell the public
what the public needs to know about
these nominees it is weird to try to do
this in the transition before the
nominations are formally made by the
newly sworn in president but honestly
that'll be too late
Trump is the one who made it weird by
making this demand that the Senate not
confirm any of his
appointees democrats should take him at
his word and do the hearings
now but it's not just the Senate The
Washington Post was first to report that
these guys are also planning to try to
kibos the other major role that Congress
has in governing the United States which
is the power of the purse right the
money appropriating the funds that the
government spends Washington Post post
reports that part of the plan for
Trump's radical austerity program that
he has outsourced to Eccentric
right-wing billionaire Elon Musk part of
the plan is that they're not going to
have musk and his commission whatever it
is they're not going to have them make a
proposal to Congress as to to what Elon
Musk thinks ought to be cut out of the
government they're just planning on
cutting it all directly having musk just
tell Trump what to do and then having
Trump just make the cuts himself leaving
Congress out of it getting rid of in
other words the power of the purse so
it's just decided between Elon Musk and
Donald
Trump and this isn't small stuff right
this is putting the accused child sex
trafficking guy who says he wants to
abolish the FBI and maybe the whole
justice department in charge of the
justice department without any vetting
or confirmation hearing or background
check or vote this is according to the
guy who is heading up the austerity
program with Elon Musk a plan to quote
delete the government which is the exact
same language used by the influential
radical blogger who JD Vance cites as a
major influence on his thinking this guy
Curtis yarvin is the one who started
this thing on the far right that the
government needs to be quote deleted he
says the government needs to be deleted
and then we need to replace it with
something new something for which he
says we will quote need to get over our
dictator
phobia we need to delete the government
and then get over our dictator phobia
they're not trying to abolish the
fundamental functions of Congress
they're not trying to get rid of article
one of the Constitution to do small
stuff they're trying to get rid of
article one of the Constitution they're
trying to marginalize and disempower the
whole Congress in order to do the most
radical things
imaginable and you know what nobody
loves Congress
but you'll love it a lot compared to the
alternative when it's
gone because I for one have plenty of
dictator phobia I think that's a healthy
phobia to have and I have no plans to
get over it my whole
life nobody knows if the republicans in
Congress will fight to keep our
structure of government whether they
will roll over and let Trump say for a
start get rid of the Senate's role in
voting on nominations whether they will
just roll over and let Trump take over
the power of the purse and start
directly controlling all
spending but that's what Trump is trying
to do and right now for these next few
weeks before he's in power it's actually
in democrat's power it is in democrat's
hands in the Senate to show what the
Congress can do to show what it's for to
do the job and to make it as hard as
possible for them to get away with the
worst things they are trying to do even
before they take
over that's doable and that is something
that is doable right now for